the team make camp at the foot of the
mountain while climbing specialist tim
fogg prepares the equipment Justine and
Steve will spend a day exploring nearby
caves for wildlife
instead very cuddly stuff I'm more into
the kind of things that most people hate
its slimy if it's got loads of legs then
I'm happy and I think there's a lots of
that sort of stuff around so for me this
place is paradise
Steve heads off in search of his
favorite animals snakes Justine has a
personal goal to film one of Borneo's
greatest wildlife spectacles she's
heading for one of the biggest caves in
the world
wow that is so much bigger than I
thought it's gonna be this whole
mountain is like a Swiss cheese is just
full of holes and these passages just
lead into where no one really knows
where they need to but they all connect
up in this incredible labyrinth that
goes throughout the mountain this cave
is 100 metres high and 2 kilometres long
well there's absolutely amazing view and
it's also home to over 3 million bats at
dusk
Justine's hoping to capture their mass
exodus on film but they'll only fly if
the weather's right
got she got some blue sky as well as a
real treat we better get this camera set
up quite quickly and then then we'll
film the bats hopefully they come out
da-da-da-da-da SIA Steves exploring a
nearby cave with Mouton his tribe have
lived in this forest for generations
he's looking for snakes
Wow Otto mati medically done a mini yeah
yeah so these very obviously I am with
coffins of traditional coffins these
pots were for water for cooking of the
food I presume it's like an offering
either to the spirits or to the
ancestors themselves the reason
everything's broken is because animals
have smelt the remains of the dead
people and they come up here and smashed
into the vases to feed on the remains
amongst the pottery lie the disturbing
remnants of moutains ancestors mini-van
baba saya okay so all this stuff was
here before his father and before his
grandfather so it's been here in Phoenix
a couple of generations so we took
Lincoln Lincoln
Serato stone to be yeah so certainly
over 100 years these remains are one of
the few signs that tribal people have
for centuries lived and died in these
forests